<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Agenda</title>
	</head>
<body>
<p>
Draft agenda for November 22, 2016 ALTO board teleconference.  If you have changes or additions, please email them to everyone as soon as possible. 
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item>action items</a>. [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Three board member terms expire at the end of 2016, Evelien, Joachim, and Jukka. According to <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/board/ALTO%20Board%20Membership%20Criteria.html>ALTO Board Membership rules</a> 
	board membership terms are renewable. Evelien and Jukka will renew their terms.  [<b>Joachim</b> will you renew your term?]</li>
<li>According to <a href=https://altoxml.github.io/board/ALTO%20Board%20Membership%20Criteria.html>ALTO Board Membership rules</a> 
	a chair must be chosen for the next calendar year (2017) on or before Dec 31 of the current calendar year (2016). 
<li>Review registration of MIME type for ALTO.  See <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/40>issue 40</a>. [<b>Jean Philippe</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Review results of comments and voting on the Glyphs change request solution <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>. [<b>Joachim</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Continuing discussion about the terms of use for ALTO (see <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/37>issue 37</a>). Nate reports on whether the Library of Congress will approve the ALTO board's choice of 
	Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (<a href=https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>CC BY-SA 4.0)</a>. Clemens reports on his discussion with Armin Talke, legal expert at Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin. 
	[<b>Nate</b>, <b>Clemens</b>, and <b>Frederick</b> lead discussion]</li>
<li>Review collaboration with the Newspapers Interest Group of the International Image Interoperability Framework (IIIF) and with the IFLA News Media section on an ALTO fragment identifier API. [<b>Jean Philippe</b> and <b>Frederick</b> lead discussion]</li>
<li>Continue discussion of ALTO fragment idenfitifier API <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/33>(issue 33)</a> and IIIF's change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/40>(issue 40)</a>. 
	[<b>Jean Philippe</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Short report on processing history change requests if needs be.  At the last board meeting, Clemens guessed that there would only be something substantive about processing history to discuss
	2 board meetings hence. See issue <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/39>39</a>. [<b>Clemens</b> leads discussion]</li>
</ol>

<p>
View all open action items <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item><b>here</b></a>.
</p>

</body>
</html>
