1. Welcome new Board Members. [**All**]
2. Find and tell a non-offensive, maybe self-deprecating joke before the meeting begins and/or after it ends. [**All**]
3. Arabic OCR and Text Representation: experiences and challenges - we had a great discussion on this topic at the f2f meeting in Las Vegas and I think it would be useful for the larger group. [**All**]
4. Spring/Summer F2F Meeting Opportunities - the survey for this would/will normally go out in January but it would be useful to get a heads up on conferences/gatherings that should be in the list. [**All**]
   * [4th Digital Humanities in the Nordic Countries](https://cst.dk/DHN2019/DHN2019.html) - Copenhagen DNK: March 6–8, 2019
   * [DATECH 2019](http://openpreservation.org/event/datech-2019) - Bruxelles BEL: May 8-10, 2019
   * [ACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries](http://2019.jcdl.org) - Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, USA: June 2-6, 2019
   * [Open Repositories 2019](https://or2019.blogs.uni-hamburg.de) - Hamburg, DEU: June 10-13, 2019 
   * [2019 IIIF Conference](https://iiif.io/event/2019/goettingen/) - Göttingen, DEU: June 24-28, 2019
   * [Digital Humanities 2019](https://dh2019.adho.org) - Utrecht NLD: July 9-12, 2019
   * IAPR International Workshop on Document Analysis Systems 2019?
   * IFLA International News Media Conference 2019?
5. Review schema issues and other updates. [**Art**]
   * [TextBlocks and paragraphs](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/53)  - can this be closed?
   * [ALTO 4.0: adaptation of "Processing" substructure](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/52) - ready for a vote?
   * [Asian language (Japanese, Korean, Chinese) with ruby characters cannot be properly represented in ALTO](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/51) - possible connection to SUBS_TYPE and SUBS_CONTENT?
   * See full list of open schema issues [here](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues)
6. Planning for special meeting on handwriting support in ALTO [**All**] - following up on the suggestion at the [2018-07-26 ALTO Board Meeting](https://github.com/altoxml/board/blob/gh-pages/minutes/2018-07-26%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.md) that we should invite Günter Mühlberger and his group at the University of Innsbruck to meet with the Board about their work on handwriting.
7. Addition of two new Board Members/expansion of Board. [**Frederick**]
8. Other business. [**All**]
9. Next meeting date. [**All**]
