1. Find and tell a non-offensive, maybe self-deprecating joke before the meeting begins and/or after it ends. [**All**]
2. Update on support for ruby characters. See [issue 51](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/51). [**Art/Frederick**]
3. GitHub Reorganization and Housekeeping. [**Clemens & Others**]
   * Status/migration of wiki â€“ see https://altoxml.github.io/
   * Process for schema changes
4. Planning for F2F meeting (Oct. 14, [DLF Forum](https://www.diglib.org/dlf-events/2018forum/) in Las Vegas - see details below). [**All**]
5. Champions for orphaned/unassigned [open schema issues](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues). [**Art**]
   * Identification of running title - [Issue #50](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/50)
   * Non Linear Hyphens - [Issue #41]( https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/41)
   * Draft a change proposal for "normalized" coordinates - [Issue #38](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/38)
   * OCR correction attributes: CS, ILLS, DBTS - [Issue #21](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/21)
   * Reading Order (IMPACT) - [Issue #18](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/18)
   * textBlock "writing-mode" proposal - [Issue #12](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/12)
6. Results of vote for two new Board Members/expansion of Board. [**All**]

_Additional Details for F2F Meeting_:

[M Resort Map - Conference Level](https://www.themresort.com/-/media/png/west/mresort/pdfs-1/conference-level.pdf?la=en&hash=18BB834FB01793D61A8461A23DBF0A5453DCBECA) - (PDF)

There is a the "group desk" is just to the left of Molise and Messina breakout rooms, and the boardroom is just a little farther to the lower-right in the map.

![Board meeting room - M Resort Conference Level.](https://github.com/altoxml/board/raw/gh-pages/misc/boardroom.png)
