# 2018-03-12 ALTO Board Meeting Minutes

1. Find and tell a non-offensive, maybe self-deprecating joke before the 
meeting begins and/or after it ends. [**All**]
2. Steps to finalize ALTO version 4.0 [**All**]
3. Scheduling face-to-face meeting, see 
[survey results](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CrUULcLXwRG8fWSIFs2UWzfSu8gsecwm06az2jDxRB0/edit#gid=1636547261). [**All**]
4. Update on registration of MIME type for ALTO. See 
[issue 40](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/23). [**Jean Philippe**]
5. Update on changing BASELINE to accommodate a list of points - [issue 32](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/23). [**Art**]
6. Update on integration of ALTO with the International Image Interoperability Framework 
(IIIF) [issue 45](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/23). [**Jean Philippe** and **Clemens**]

**Attending members**

* Joachim Bauer
* Raju Buddharaju
* Jukka Kervinen
* Evelien Ket
* Ralph Marschall
* Ashok Popat

The [minutes from the Jan. 18](https://github.com/altoxml/board/blob/gh-pages/minutes/2018-01-18%20ALTO%20Board%20Meeting%20Minutes.md) 
meeting will be copied to the main github site as soon as permissions are sorted out.

wrt agenda item 2: The steps for finalizing ALTO version 4.0 are mostly
complete. The Board would normally review and sign-off on the final version but this is probably not necessary.

wrt agenda item 3: The 
[survey results](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1CrUULcLXwRG8fWSIFs2UWzfSu8gsecwm06az2jDxRB0/edit#gid=1636547261)
for the next face-to-face meeting indicate [DAS](https://das2018.cvl.tuwien.ac.at) has a slight lead over the
other options. The best meeting time during DAS is probably the first day
of the conference (Tuesday, April 24) which is the workshop day. Art will
contact the organizers to arrange for a meeting room.

wrt agenda item 5: The issue has been updated to reflect a typographic
interpretation of baseline. The documentation element will be expanded to
include the coordinate specification (from top-left of image).

wrt agenda item 6: Some discussion on the [IIIF proposal to support OCR
correction](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AkTTyqg4aOL0Y1USw-puUmeuweltvIif2nny8HgJfqA/edit).
Jo described a workflow that for OCR correction that uses an ALTO file
with extensions, he will provide a sample that includes the customizations
to support this function. Also some discussion on font identification.

The next meeting will be at the DAS Conference on April 24.
