<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">

<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
	<head>
		<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
		<title>ALTO Board Meeting Minutes</title>
	</head>
<body>
<p>
Agenda for March 2, 2017 ALTO board teleconference.
</p>

<ol>
<li>Review <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item>action items</a>. [<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Present and discuss results of the face-to-face board meeting survey.  See <a href=https://docs.google.com/a/global-connexions.com/forms/d/12uZRdB4sa3mxnHvv5vJc6QVbCl3LBIzQI8nDphdTnW8/edit#responses>survey results</a>.
	[<b>Frederick</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review results of comments and voting on the Glyphs change request solution <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/26>(issue 26)</a>. [<b>Joachim</b> leads discussion.]</li>
<li>Continuing discussion about the terms of use for ALTO (see <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/37>issue 37</a>). Nate reports on whether the Library of Congress will approve the ALTO board's choice of 
	Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (<a href=https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/>CC BY-SA 4.0)</a>. Clemens reports on his discussion with Armin Talke, legal expert at Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin. 
	[<b>Nate</b>, <b>Clemens</b>, and <b>Frederick</b> lead discussion]</li>
<li>Report on processing history change requests. See issue <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/39>39</a>. [<b>Clemens</b> leads discussion]</li>
<li>Review collaboration with the Newspapers Interest Group of the International Image Interoperability Framework (IIIF) and with the IFLA News Media section on an ALTO fragment identifier API. [<b>Jean Philippe</b> and <b>Frederick</b> lead discussion]</li>
<li>Review registration of MIME type for ALTO.  See <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/40>issue 40</a>. [<b>Jean Philippe</b> or <b>Clemens</b> lead discussion.]</li>
<li>Continue discussion of ALTO fragment idenfitifier API <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/33>(issue 33)</a> and IIIF's change request <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/40>(issue 40)</a>. 
	[<b>Jean Philippe</b> and <b>Clemens</b> lead discussion.]</li>
</ol>

<p>
View all open action items <a href=https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item><b>here</b></a>.
</p>

<p>
<b>Attending members</b>
</p>

<ul>
<li>Brian Geiger</li>
<li>Clemens Neudecker</li>
<li>Frederick Zarndt</li>
<li>Jukka Kervinen</li>
<li>Raju Buddharaju</li>
<li>Stefan Pletschacher</li>
</ul>

<p>
<b>Minutes</b>
</p>


</body>
</html>
