# 2018-10-14 ALTO Board Meeting Minutes

**Agenda**

1. Review [action items](https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item) and other updates. [**Art** leads discussion]
2. Open discussion of supporting Arabic in ALTO. [**All**]
3. Open discussion of supporting handwriting in ALTO (if time). [**All**]
4. Other business. [**All**]

View all open action items [here](https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item).

**Attending members**

* Matthew Thomas Miller
* Ashok Popat
* Art Rhyno
* Frederick Zarndt

**Minutes**

The Board welcomed Matt who joined the meeting virtually by Google
Hangouts. Discussion was held on the state of Arabic OCR software.
Frederick noted the use of [Sakhr OCR](http://www.sakhr.com/index.php/en/solutions/ocr) and 
[RDI](http://www.rdi-eg.com/) among institutions with large collections of
Arabic materials and the high rate of individual character-level
corrections. Matt described the [Open Islamicate Texts Initiative](https://github.com/OpenITI) 
(OpenITI) and positive experiences with the open-source 
[Kraken OCR engine](https://github.com/mittagessen/kraken). The OpenITI  a large is a
multi-institutional effort to construct the first machine-actionable
scholarly corpus of premodern Islamicate texts

For mapping Arabic in ALTO, Art asked about the similarity between _tashkil_
marks in Arabic text and _ruby_ symbols in Asian languages. Matt will upload
some sample Arabic materials to the ALTO github site.

In response to a question from Matt, Ashok clarified the relationship
between Tesseract and the OCR support in the 
[Cloud Vision API](https://cloud.google.com/vision/docs/ocr). Google supports Tesseract
development and the recent neural network support in Tesseract was assisted
by the API team. Ashok described the current workflow of the Cloud Vision
API, which now includes handwriting recognition support.

Matt had another commitment and had to step out of the meeting at the 2
hour point. Ashok suggest a contact for Asian language expertise that Art
will follow up on. There was some discussion about the 
[OCR correction proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1AkTTyqg4aOL0Y1USw-puUmeuweltvIif2nny8HgJfqA/edit?usp=sharing)
in IIIF and how that may be an important development in furthering the use
of ALTO in digitization projects. The meeting wrapped up after 2.5 hours,
thanks to all involved.
