# 2018-01-18 ALTO Board Meeting Minutes

Updated draft agenda for January 18, 2018 ALTO board teleconference. If you have changes or additions, please email them to 
everyone as soon as possible.
1. Find and tell a non-offensive, maybe self-deprecating joke before the meeting begins and/or after it ends. [**All**]
2. Choose a board chair. Each year on or before Dec 31, the board must choose a chair from amongst its members 
for the following year (see board rules). All (continuing) members are eligible. This is carried over from last 
meeting because several board members did not attend. [**Clemens** leads the discussion].
3. Report on ALTO version 4.0, the ALTO XML schema [README](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/blob/26-glyphs/README.md), and 
its [CC-BY-SA 4.0 license](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/). 
[**Joachim**, **Evelien**, **Clemens**, and **Stefan** lead discussion.]
4. Report on registration of MIME type for ALTO. See [issue 40](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/40). 
[**Jean Philippe** and **Frederick** lead discussion.]
5. Report on [issue 32](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/32). [**Art** leads discussion.]
6. Report on ALTO reference examples; see [issue 1](https://github.com/altoxml/reference_samples/issues/1). 
[**Stefan** leads discussion.]
7. Report (if needed) on integration of ALTO with the International Image Interoperability Framework (IIIF) 
[isssue 45](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/45). [**Jean Philippe** and **Clemens** lead discussion]

View all open action items [here](https://github.com/altoxml/board/labels/action%20item).

**Attending members**

  * Joachim Bauer
  * Raju Buddharaju
  * Brian Geiger
  * Jukka Kervinen
  * Evelien Ket
  * Ralph Marschall
  * Jean-Philippe Moreux
  * Clemens Neudecker
  * Stefan Pletschacher
  * Ashok Popat
  * Art Rhyno
  * Nate Trail
  * Frederick Zarndt
  
  wrt agenda item 2. Frederick will continue as Chair for 2018 and transition Art to the position for 2019.
  
  wrt agenda item 3. Jo has done final formating on the schema for version 4 and showed the text of a draft announcement for the 
  ALTO mailing list. Frederick noted the the creatives commons (CC) license should be included. Jo added it to the announcement and 
  it will be added to the schema comments as well. It was agreed that there would be a public review for 2 weeks, and if no concerns
  are raised, there will be an official release. Jo's announcement points to the github location for the schema.
  
  Clemens asked about the README where schema changes are specified and there was some discussion on the layout of the github 
  repository. In response to a question from Jo about the *reference_samples* folder, the intent was to have a place for
  use cases where images might be provided but not ALTO files. Clemens will create a new folder called *novel_use_cases* 
  for this. It was agreed that the documentation was often lacking on the github site for the purposes of the various folders
  and Clemens volunteered to help sort this out. 
  
  Jo announced that he has received sample content with ALTO files from the National Library of Medicine in Chinese, with 
  metadata generated from docWorks. It was agreed that the best location for this type of material is in the *reference_samples*
  folder, and that it should be organized by schema version. Jo asked about cases involving large files, the sample content
  resides in a 400MB zipped archive. The ALTO github site has limited space but Frederick has an enterprize Google Drive
  account with unlimited storage that can be used for linking to the content. Stefan noted that it is important for developers
  to be easily able to acquire full samples and there was some discussion about the value of providing METS as well as 
  ALTO for showing the structure of the content.
  
  It was recognized that the discussion had drifted into Agenda item 6 and Stefan asked about putting processes into place
  to validate samples uploaded to github. Jo has provide same samples generated by the Oxygen XML editor, and showed 
  some of the possible parameters that can be used by Oxygen. For example, Oxygen can generate all elements, a minimum set, or 
  be configured to produce a representative sample for specific elements. Jo will upload the settings file to github.
  
  Sample images are important as well, and Jo noted that the work on gylphs is an area where sample images would be particularly
  useful for a developer. Ashok asked about the relationship between variants for gylphs as described in the 4.0 ALTO schema
  as it relates to image regions. Google's internal representation uses a lattice structure where variants for the region 
  of an image are supported. Stefan noted that there had been a long discussion around variant support in ALTO, and that
  the current syntax reflected the capabilites of common OCR engines. There is room for the variants support to evolve. 
  
  Jo pointed out that even the metrics provided by OCR engines vary, and that docWorks has to recalculate numbers from sources
  like the Abbyy SDK to come up with a common scale. Frederick reminded the group of 
  [issue 23](https://github.com/altoxml/schema/issues/23), currently assigned to Nate and Ashok. The lattice structure
  used by Google is a computer representation that might not be workable for an XML syntax, but Ashok agreed to describe
  it in more detail at an upcoming meeting. He noted that Google has moved beyond isolated characters to the probabilities
  of certain groupings, "N" versus "RN", for example, and exposes different segmentatiions using protocol buffers that can
  be serialized, allowing end users to apply domain-specific dictionaries.
  
  Finishing up Agenda item 6, real-world examples from the European newspapers ground truth data set will be provided that
  include images and some of the extensive work done on Named-entity recognition (NER). Frederick asked Raju about Chinese samples 
  that represent particularly challenging representations, for example, articles that end and then continue in a non-prescribed
  location in the text. Raju has some samples that might have copyright concerns, but agreed to try to make this content 
  available.
  
  wrt agenda item 4. Frederick reported that the text required by IETF for the MIME registration and the changes coming out of
  the face-to-face meeting in Dresden have been put into the document, and that uploading the file to IETF has been thwarted
  by errors coming from the IETF website. It was suggested that using a different browser or submitting by *curl* might
  get past this. Jo and Jean-Philippe will take a look, the text is available in the 
  [shared google folder](https://drive.google.com/open?id=0B4gyLSJzlES5UnF3eXNkaUJYdzg). Frederick expects that the
  registration will be complete in the next couple of days.
  
  wrt agenda item 5. Art described some of the difficulites in identifying baselines in written text, and supports the
  original proposal to the issue. Jo noted the need to address baselines as a result of the transcription tool
  that is widely used, particularly in German countries. The general support for handwriting in ALTO was discussed, and it
  was agreed that this should be part of a more philosophical discussion, perhaps at a face-to-face meeting. Frederick
  noted that the case of supporting OCR in video is another example of deciding what ALTO should expand to cover.
  
  Frederick will put together a poll of upcoming conference locations for the next face-to-face meeting. Ashok pointed out that
  the DAS conference is coming up in April in Vienna. The group agreed that the next virtual meeting for the ALTO Board
  might best take place in the middle of February.
